all right Sagar what's on your radar
well a mission of this show is to
highlight the plight of struggling
working Americans to lift up their
voices and the voices of those who
deigned to respect them by advocating
for their interests with public policy
and while the plight for working
Americans and families has been
desperate now for decades one particular
generation of people has it particularly
bad that is the Millennial Generation no
matter their race creed or gender
yesterday the New York Times profiled a
millennial couple the man had two jobs
one at a carpet store the other at a
coffee shop
his girlfriend worked at a coffee shop
as well they lost all jobs in a span of
just a few weeks they only have $1,000
to their name which is just enough to
cover their $800 rent check for this
month they won't be paying their student
loans and they for gone the health care
that they wanted to purchase their story
is a common one of many in the
Millennial Generation both for those who
entered college and working-class
Americans who thought that their stable
blue-collar jobs would be there for them
to support a family and a robust life in
a non urban center that future of course
Spanish in 2008 as Annie Lowrey actually
explained in a very prescient piece last
August in the Atlantic noting that
Millennials graduated into the worst job
market in over 80 years meaning a full
decade of lost wages for an entire
generation Lowery said that the 2014
data reveals both millennial men and
women in 2014 were making less than
their baby boomer counterparts at the
same age despite the economy being
orders of magnitude Richard and larger
and by nearly every measure they are
worse off
student debt at explosive levels less
wealth stagnant wages higher cost of
living less children less savings less
assets and more the millennial
generations economic conditions was the
logical outcome of a society and an
economy that prioritized consumerism and
neoliberalism to their farthest ends and
Lolly Lowrey actually predicted all of
this writing quote a downturn that leads
to higher unemployment and lower wages
will force Millennials to wait even
longer to start accumulating wealth
making it far harder for them to
accumulate any wealth at all so now here
we are we're not only this generation is
reaping the horrific rewards of the
economy but a new generation enters it
in sinless
is that covered here almost three weeks
ago now Generation Z is now graduating
from college or those or in the working
class have been furloughed serve at the
whims of the professional class at the
worst time the small business payroll
loans will help but we're younger
Americans really making all that much in
the first place so much of the
Washington discussion right now is about
getting folks back to work and nobody is
more in favor of that than me but in
this transformational moment when
anything is possible and when we
understand once and for all that in a
time of immense crisis like this one
only the government can step in and
actually do something about the immense
problems that we face it's time to
recognize that the kids are not alright
and they haven't been for quite some
time because they're not even kids
anymore I returned again to a recent
auntie Lowery column written about two
months ago before things really went off
the rails writing quote in one of the
best decades in the American economy has
ever recorded families were bled dry by
landlords hospital administrators
university Bursar's and child care
centers for millions roaring economy
felt precarious or downright terrible
with 40% of Americans struggling to come
up with $400 in a crisis
how 20% in normal times couldn't pay
their bills and one-third of households
were classified as financially fragile
all of this pain is felt doubly so for
younger Americans especially those who
are not college educated and as we look
forward to paying their lost wages we
might ask whether they were high enough
in the first place and what can be done
so the bottom does not fall out again
and how exactly we can live in a country
where people can actually just get a job
and prosper again and something you know
in slower news days I like to take a
picture at the bigger picture and I was
reading this crazy that the chance is a
slower news by the way I and I I was
taking and reading this profile of
beasts of the times and you know that
that struck me because a these are two
college-educated Americans who are
working at a carpet shop and two coffee
shops so first of all the dream of
college didn't work out but we had a lot
of people watching right now who relate
to that greatly can't imagine you know
how and there's millions of people who
fall into that boughs and then they or
maybe they didn't maybe one of the you
know the large percentage of people who
start college and decide it's not for
them that's fine but then are saddled
with student debt and have struggle
paying
yeah and I'm reading this and I'm
singing these people lost everything
they had within a span of weeks only a
thousand dollars to their name $800 rent
check is coming $200 in the bank for
food for student debt payments neither
of them have health care if they have
both been saving up aspiring to be able
to purchase health care after one of
these exchanges that Joe Biden wants to
open and I'm just thinking about the
hopelessness of being in that type of
situation and what is the response been
it's been a $1,200 rent check payment
that might come in a week maybe two
nobody really knows maybe these people
didn't have direct deposit information
with the IRS which means nothing's
coming until August sure they can file
for unemployment which makes up some
lost wages but again I'm just looking at
this I'm saying their wages have been so
stagnant so low for so long and then
relative to that there's no wealth to
fall back on all of their money just
goes to the fight flows upward to the
financial elite and to the baby boomer
generation the landlord class and I'm
just thinking wow like again and again
and again this entire crisis just
reveals how much of a kind of a husk the
economy is particularly for people who
are down at the bottom and I'm just
thinking about so many millions of
younger Americans like I said I mean
half you know more than half the country
doesn't go to college right mean for so
many of those people who thirds the
Millennials don't go to college right
and so for those people in service
sector jobs who are working-class urban
working class we're all working class I
mean their jobs are just gone gone and
with no support whatsoever already we're
living in pretty dire straits right had
no savings had no wealth and it's those
who are hit the hardest right at a time
like this and yet their voices are not
heard here in DC Oh in fact and this is
one of the things I've been trying to
warn about within the Democratic Party
is is who did young people
overwhelmingly vote for it like 70 60 70
percent voted for Bernie Sanders and
what happened the Democratic Party went
all in to say no to say no to your
values no to your ideas no to the
candidate that you back we will do
everything we possibly can I think it
was stole our tweet of problems sounds
like a stolen basically the Democrats
got more organized to defeat Bernie
Sanders than he's ever seen them get
organized to defeat any Republican in
our lifetime
right and it's totally true and that is
a generational battle right there it's
also a class battle those two things are
interrelated and so what are we here
right now in this time of crisis those
who are doing well in the status quo who
benefited from the status quo who tend
to be of older generations that did much
better than Millennials and Millennials
are doing much better than Gen Z is
gonna be in a position to do those older
people say let's just deal with the
crisis we can't afford to think about
all this restructuring yeah that's nice
that's cute we'll deal with that later
we do later but we gotta just let's just
get the ventilators how that's what we
got to focus on like a laser right now
and get that $1,200 payment out and then
later on we'll deal with that whole
restructuring thing that you all have
been talking about later on never comes
the only big changes that even ever
happen in American politics now given
how sort of broken down and defunct our
system is here it the only changes come
by crisis that is the only time and
that's true somewhat throughout history
but especially now the only time when
you can change the trajectory just a
little bit happens in a crisis which is
why you and I think we're so exercised
about this massive corporate bailout
because it has exactly the opposite
effect of what you want to see what we
want to see is communities being
revitalized where small business can
flourish individual people and families
and communities can flourish instead
what we're going to see coming out of
this by design by a barb bipartisan
consensus in this town to favor the
status quo and by its nature to favor
the older generations who have benefited
from that status quo what we are going
to see is continued consolidation the
big guys getting bigger all of the
wealth and human capital and resources
continuing to be sucked out of small
towns and small cities in America and
consolidated among a few places and a
few individuals the way that they have
responded to this crisis will only
exacerbate those trends and it will fall
hardest on the youngest people exactly
because they have nothing to fall back
on and they have nothing
to work towards and that's a very
hopeless situation to leave millions and
millions of people in and that again it
just I can't underestimate were state
and I try to in order to communicate
with older people and older generations
because they're like why why is there
such like a hopelessness among Samana
and I'm gonna think about it we came
into age of you graduate from college or
from high school or whatever and to the
worst economic crisis the worst labor
market over over 80 years your childhood
is four decades of Foreign Wars in which
America is losing unequivocally
thousands dead you know thousands of
Americans dead millions of Iraqis Afghan
civilians so many others and you look at
this and you're like what am I supposed
to be hopeful about like there's no
there was nothing great that really
happened within those generations just
kind of a meandering all while the job
market gets shipped overseas and we look
at this bailout package and we just see
that the like Nancy Pelosi wants a salt
cap Mitch McConnell has nothing
particularly wants he was and you're
like what are we gonna do yeah Trev
administration is like how about a
Capaldi nation and others right please
cut the capital games and there are
these like small dissenting voices that
actually represent some of the people on
the left on the right even in some of
the administration people like Peter
Navarro but put them up against the
fifteen twenty thirty fifty hundred
others within that coalition or that
organization that believe the opposite
and you just see again what you're up
against and I was reading this and I'm
just thinking about so many other people
who are of that generation who feel
truly hopeless and nihilism is a
dangerous thing it has society that
doesn't that's with a moment that was
longer and slower you have a slide
towards the undermining of faith in your
institutions then then you're gonna like
we said here Bernie and Trump are gonna
look like flashes in the pan of like
sweet times in America and you are gonna
look back I mean I've never been more
convinced as I was three weeks ago when
I where I was talking about how a bit
one of the largest populist uprising in
history will come than it is gonna be
right now because I'm looking at those
these Millennials of blue-collar and
white-collar workers who are Meg having
nothing have mountains a student debt
inability to own anything have to move
to these cities and basically work in
slave wages you know to pick two
different
jobs just to be able to make rent and
I'm like you know what they're not gonna
accept this and they're not gonna accept
it for much longer and they shouldn't
have to that's the most important thing
they should not have to and it's not
just left you know on the right - I
think a lot you know a lot of the people
who are on the right and are young they
watch shows like this they support
people like Josh Holley who is the
youngest a US senator I think there's a
reason for that which is that over and
over again they've rejected the ideology
that has been pushed down their throats
to reflect the life circumstances that
they accurately live in to update to
their cultural values whether they were
on the left or the right and I think
that's where the new politics really
will be well and then there's all this
shaming of young people for not showing
up to vote yeah and I think a big part
of the reason why is this dynamic you
know and I would caution against that as
you said cynicism and nihilism very very
dangerous we can't afford to disengage
with electoral politics but I can't
blame people either know exactly why I
mean I I don't understand I don't blame
them for not having faith in the system
because thirty years in some cases you
know what what's the high end of a
millennia like thirty nine at this point
at that point you've had four thirty
nine years of failure I mean your entire
lived reality for your for your adult
life has been economic failure and
economic basically like economic
stagnation so why should you have faith
in the system you have almost your
entire adult life yeah all right but you
should still vote all right looking
forward to radar next whistle